About 28 years after Jesus' death, the Apostle Paul provided comfort to the brothers by means of our scripture text today.
By means of this wonderful promise when Jehovah said,
I will not forget you, your works, and your love.
Now, why would the fact that Jehovah does not forget be of comfort to the brothers?
Don't you agree that if you tell somebody that you don't forget him or what he has done,
can have completely different meaning depending on the person and the circumstances?
Let us therefore focus on the meaning of Jehovah does not forget.
In order to make this discussion practical, maybe talk specifically to you, dear sisters,
who lost your husband in death or whose husband was unfaithful.
Similar to your situation, there must have been widows in Judea back then who went not only through the pain of losing their maid,
but also had to deal with all the changes as well as economical and social challenges.
Therefore, you want to answer the following three questions.
How did Jehovah remember or not forget the widows' seraphas?
And then second, in what ways does Jehovah remember you, dear sisters, today?
And then thirdly, how can we all benefit from Jehovah's remembering?
So first of all, how did Jehovah remember the widows' seraphas?
And I'd like to invite you to turn to 1 Kings 17.
As we know, during a drought, the Prophet Elijah was directed by God
to go to seraphas in order to be saved and kept alive through the help of a widow.
So Jehovah remembered the widow in that he took note of her.
He saw her, he knew she would be willing to help and to be used by him.
Jehovah saw her potential.
Would the poor widow really help?
We read in verses 15 and 16 of 1 Kings 17.
So she, the widow, went and did as Elijah said,
and she, together with him and her household, ate for many days.
The large jar of flour did not run out and the small jar of oil did not run dry,
according to Jehovah's word that he had spoken through Elijah.
Jehovah miraculously fed Elijah.
Did he forget the widow?
No. Jehovah became a saviour to the widow.
Instead of dying, the widow continued eating and drinking.
And even some time later, Jehovah did not forget the widows' faith and their words, household.
After the death of the widow's son, Elijah asked Jehovah to resurrect the son.
We read in verses 22 and 24 to 24.
And Jehovah listened to Elijah's request and the life of the child came back into him and he revived.
Elijah took the child and brought him down from the roof chamber into the house and gave him to his mother.
And Elijah said, see your son is alive.
At that, the woman said to Elijah,
Now I know that you truly are a man of God and that Jehovah's word in your mouth is truth.
What a blessing for the widow.
Jehovah did not forget her work and faith.
What a joyous moment. Jehovah became the great comforter.
Additionally, by means of her resurrected son, Jehovah cared for her as she grew old.
Jehovah became the great provider.
In Luke 4, Jesus makes a positive reference about her.
So it could be that she could live out her days as a faithful servant of Jehovah.
How delighted she will be when Jehovah will remember her soon again and resurrect her.
So as we've seen in this example, Jehovah does not forget by becoming what the individual needs the most.
Now to our second Christians, our dear sisters, in what ways does Jehovah remember you today?
Let us please look at three scriptures to see what Jehovah becomes for you.
Let's turn first of all to John chapter 14.
Because Jehovah knows that your maid who commanded you and who assured you in the past is not here anymore.
What helped Jesus to know that he was loved and approved?
He was strengthened by his father's approval, by his words.
And now, Jesus assures you in verse 21.
This is John 14, verse 21, when he says,
whoever has my commandments on observes them is the one who loves me.
In turn, whoever loves me will be loved by my father.
And I will love him and will clearly show myself to him.
So, Jehovah loves you. Please, do not allow Satan to create doubts in your mind.
Doubts regarding our Heavenly Father's approval.
Instead, see the commendation and the love expressed by your brothers and sisters as coming from Jehovah.
Jehovah uses them because he does not forget your works and your love.
Now, the second scripture is Psalm 68.
Jehovah knows about the need you feel for security and protection.
So, he is becoming your protector.
We read in verse 5 of Psalm 68,
about Jehovah, a father of the father less enter, protector of widows.
You are especially protected by our Heavenly Father.
For example, he protects you from spiritual harm.
He equips you with what you need in order to avoid danger,
and so you are able to safeguard your friendship with him.
By means of his word and the publication, Jehovah makes his loving guidance and protection stand out to you.
Now, let's turn to the third scripture, Hebrews 13.
Losing a husband goes along with anxiety regarding material things.
So, what did you experience so far?
Did Jehovah's promise that is repeated by the Apostle Paul here in Hebrews 13,
at the end of verse 5, proved to be true in your circumstances?
When he promised, I will never leave you.
I will never abandon you.
Jehovah does not forget your works in your love by becoming your provider.
And please, allow other brothers and sisters to help you.
This is the way Jehovah remembers you.
Mention your needs to them so that Jehovah can use them to care for you.
So, Jehovah does not forget your works, your love,
by assuring you of his approval, by becoming your protector
and your provider in many more ways.
Now, our final question was, how can you and how can we all benefit from Jehovah's remembering?
What we discussed so far was something you heard many times before, nothing new.
And yet, there are these moments where we just would like Jehovah to speak directly to us saying,
I see you, I see your works, I see your love and I will not forget you.
What can we do in these very moments?
Now, God's words need to sound down in our mind and heart
so that we are influenced by it.
How can we accomplish this?
By allowing our Bible reading to affect us deep inside.
So, as we meditate about what we read, we can ask us the question,
do I really believe what I just read?
Why am I sure that Bible examples are not isolated events but are pattern of Jehovah's dealings with these loyal ones?
Have I not seen and experienced this personally?
Don't I see very good reason to believe that through the Scriptures, Jehovah is talking to me personally?
Meditating about these questions will help us to feel Jehovah's sentiments are meant for us personally.
And this in turn will help us to align our thinking with God's thinking.
So, the widow of Saraphat reminded us of the many different ways Jehovah remembers widows and their love and their fine works.
Dear sisters, please continue to see Jehovah as your provider, your protector and the one that assures you personally of his love.